Hampton court Sept: 13 [24 n. s.]: 1733 Dear Count 1 tho I am so angry with you for never having writ to me, that I would not contribute any thing to your Pleasure, yet as I can never be so angry with you as to neglect your Interest; I must inform you that M r Andrews has written to S r Robert Walpole upon reviewing his Troops at Hindon, to say he is ready to make them join your's, & fight against the common Enemy, that is L d Weymouth; who has declared he will set up two Members there but desires to be excused naming them till L d Cartaret (whom he expects every Day at Longleat) shall come to give him his Advice in this important Affair. M r Andrews's Letter to S r Rob t I have sent to Your Brother; & S r Rob t has promised me to make Andrews do any thing you would have him; but I very much suspect that Andrews will only have a seeming Merit in giving up what he would have had no Benefit from keeping, & what I fear you will recieve little by his transferring. In my last Conferrence with S r Rob t I insisted on nothing but the returning Officer being secured to You, & what farther I am to say I expect Directions from Your Brother & You. The Progress is at an End, Ste. was left at Redlinch. The Dutchess of Richmond & Lady H. are coming here & the Duke going to Sussex. — I recieved a Letter 2 yesterday from Voltaire; he is charm'd with You; & by the sort of Comendations he gives you he must be sincere, for had he only had a mind to flatter You, it would have been impossible he should just have pitch'd on those good Qualitys which you really possess. Pray bid him send me a Direction for my Letters to him, written in a Hand I can read, for the Date of his (which I supose was to serve me for a Direction) I can not decypher. My service to M r & M rs Digby, M rs Horner &c. &c. Adieu, it is public Day consequently you know I am in a Hurry; L d & Lady Chesterfield are to come here to Day for the first time; does not that Weding surprise you a little? he has been marry'd these four Months.