Paris , 27 March 1759 Sir, It has been for a long time complained that in general our best authors are badly printed. Your works have not had in France a different fate from those of Corneille, Racine, and many other great men who have illustrated our nation; they have always been badly printed. If we except your Henriade , of which the English have made an elegant edition, and the last edition of your works which has just appeared at Geneva, where shall we find one, sir, that is passable? All our French booksellers whom you have gratified with your works have gained a great deal of money; but if they have had occasion to be satisfied with your generosity, neither you, sir, nor the public have cause for being satisfied with their handiwork. Although their numerous editions have been sold immediately they were printed, they certainly did not owe the success of so rapid a sale to their typographical merits. All these gentlemen have had the same greed for gain; and yet not one of them has had the emulation to surpass his confrères by beauty in the execution of the work. You will judge for yourself, sir, by casting your eyes on the prospectus which I have the honour to send, of the desire I have to deserve your approbation and that of the public. I propose, if you permit me, to spare neither care nor expense to make an edition of your works which shall be of exceptional beauty. M. Lemoine, my brother-in-law, does me the pleasure to preside over the department of design and engraving which will be executed by our greatest masters; and he has had, and will have, your portrait engraved from your bust. As for the typographical portion, a man of letters and taste will undertake the corrections, and I will have type made superior to that which I have employed for the prospectus. I shall be flattered, sir, if my zeal and my emulation are agreeable to you, and in that case you will much oblige me by indicating the number of copies that you will destine for your friends. I shall consider it a duty to present them on your behalf. I have the honour to be, sir, with profound respect, your very humble and obedient servant, Grangé, imprimeur-libraire, Rue de la Parcheminerie à Paris