Sir, I saw, by accident, a paragraph from a letter of monsieur Thieriot, to mr Grignion, a friend of his in London, which has given me the pleasure of perceiving, that you are too generous to disclaim your Zaire ; though naturalized in England 1 . My countrymen have, hitherto, been much more ready, to adopt the folly than the wit , of France; I, therefore, looked upon you, as my lawful prize , and seized you to adjust the balance. I found you born for no one country, by the embracing wideness of your sentiments; for, since you think for all mankind, all ages, and all languages, will claim the merit of your genius. Whatever narrowness there is in poets , there is none in poetry , at least, your poetry…. What paints all manners, should delight all countries; and you have only to resolve to die , if you would live in hearts , as well as tongues . But, while you shew us other men's great qualities, in the most strong and equitable lights, you make yourself appear unjust, in one particular; for you would cut off that relief of fools, their railing at contemporary excellence. You are (to own the truth) unconscionably a monopolist, and poor wretches, whom your plenty makes so, have the right of clamorous indigence, to be abusive, with impunity. Alzira was sent too late to London ; she should else, in one and the same season, have inspired the stages of two nations; but, even as it is, a company of very skilful actors are now re-opening the great theatre in Lincoln's-Inn fields , in order to perform this tragedy…. I own, I have, encouraged them to this attempt, in summer , to protect you from a winter storm of mercenary pens, that, tempted by your Zaire 's success, were threatening to disjoint Alzira :but, to prevent her being blotted, by defacing pencils, I chose rather to produce her hastily, much less a beauty than you drew her, than permit her to by robbed more slowly, of her spirit, air, and likeness. I was already got to a retreat , in which I bury my town purposes, when, about three weeks since, the French Alzira was, first, sent down to me by my bookseller; and now the actors (perfect in their parts) are ready to begin its representation: this charge against myself I send you for two reasons; such a precipitation will excuse the faults in my own version 2 , and convince you of my zeal to save you from duller . My letter is in English , because I have seen proofs, in print, that you are master of our tongue, while, on the contrary, I neither write nor speak, in yours, with freedom or correctness. Be pleased to honour me with your commands, to whom I may address, for you, my version of Alzira …. I take acquaintance with your spirit , not without a melancholy sense of what I lost, by being absent, in the tour of Scotland , at a time, when many of my friends enjoyed your personal intimacy here, in London. But I know you, in your noblest self, as millions now know Homer , and Euripides ; and as future millions will Voltaire , when envy shall be choaked in dust, or France deserve it, for producing you . I beg to have a place assigned me, in the list of the sincerest of, Sir, Your most humble, And obedient servant, A. Hill From my house in Petty France , Westminster