Auchinleck 29 March 1767 Sir, The politeness with which you received me at Ferney, has never faded from my remembrance. I often recall it with the liveliest pleasure, and I am happy to think that I can boast of having had several conversations with M. De Voltaire. After I left you, you was so good as to write me a letter 1 in english, which I had the honour to receive at Naples. On my return to Rome, I sent you an answer 2 . I know not if you received it. Since that time I have seen a great deal, and I think my travelling has done me great service. It has at least furnished me with a stock of ideas with which I can entertain my mind while I live; and to a man of keeness of thought that is very important. For, if He has not a good stock of ideas, He is apt to turn his keeness against himself, and you Philosophers know that the human mind cannot be nicely searched, without certain pain. My Philosophy appeared to you very gloomy; for, I confessed to you that misery seemed to me to be the principal portion of thinking Beings. I have visited the Island of Corsica, where I saw with enthusiasm a brave People who have vindicated their liberty with as much real spirit as was ever found in antiquity. General Paoli is a most extraordinary man. His abilitys in Politics and in War, his learning, his eloquence, and his generous sentiments render him truly illustrious. He has been now ten years the Commander of his Countrymen, from personal merit; a glorious distinction! I am busy writing an Account of Corsica 3 , with Memoirs of General Paoli, which will be published the beginning of next Winter. M r David Hume is so obliging as to take the charge of the Publication, as I cannot be at London myself. What does M. De Voltaire think of the Corsicans? I am perswaded He feels for them as I do. Why do you not write something in their behalf, to rouse the cold spirit of the times? Why does M. De Voltaire live in the same age with so gallant a Nation, and not compose a verse to their honour? After all my travels I am now fixed in Scotland half the year as an Advocate, and the other half as a Country Gentleman. If it is not presuming too much on your former Goodness, I would beg to hear from you. I intreat you may make my best Compliments to Madame De Nis and to Pêre Adan. I have the honour to be sir your most obedient humble servant. My Address is &c. Je n'ai pas osé vous écrire en françois. Je crois qu'il est mieux d'écrire dans sa propre langue, même quand on sait bien une langue étrangêre; et à plus forte raison, quand on en sait três peu.