Paris 29 of March n. s. [1749] a Dear s r , J have receiv'd y r new favours, and those of Mylord Chesterfield. The are many good accounts in the annals of Europe 1 as well as b in the history of the late insurection in Scotland 2 , tho intermix'd with a great number of errors. J wish j could find in every country such materials from whence my duty is to separate the wheat from the chaff, but all seems to me but chaff in the pamphlets c . T'is a great pity that y r nation is so over-run with such prodigious lumbers of scandals and scurrilities. However one ought to look upon 'em as the bad fruits of a very good tree, call'd liberty. J have been disturb'd these two months, and kept from writing my history, which, j hope, vill be the work of the historiografer of the honest men, rather than that of the historiografer to a King. J think, thruth may be told when it is wisely told, and j know my master loves it. J am neither a flatterer nor a writer of satire. J am confident my candour, and our old friendship will persuade you to help me with all the materials you can find in y r way. You will do me the greatest favour, if you can send me the relation of admiral Anson's voyage 3 and the ample disquisition about the proper means to civilise the high landers and to improve that country. J don't know the very title of that little book which, they say, is very curious and well writ, but it begins with these words ample disquisition . Pray my dear s r give orders to one of y r men to come at it. If you know any thing worth notice concerning the late general war, transactions, maritime expeditions, j intreat you to favour me with 'em. Pray who is that m r Smith by whose means was rais'd so considerable a summ in the city for the support of the government, and to whom you wrote by the duke's order? Methinks such a good patriot should be mention'd. If you see mylord Chesterfield, pray, be so kind as to present him with my aknowledgment and respect. J am from the bottom of my heart sensible of y r tender and usefull remembrance. You do not forget y r old friends; an j'll be attach'd to you till the last day of my life. Be sure, if j enjoy a better health, ill' cross the sea again in order to see you. T'is a consolation j long after. Since you govern the posts 4 , you may very easily convey y r pacquets, and even the largest to m r de la Reiniére, fermier général et intendant des postes de France, with a direction to me. Farewell dear s r . My respects to y r lady, my sincere wishes for y r son. What is become of y r brothers? Y r affectionate and tender servant Voltaire