r , I receiv'd lately two letters of y rs , one directed to lord Peterborow's 2 and the other to l d Bolingbrocks. Both happening to be in the country just whilst I was in town, hinder'd me from receiving y r orders so soon as I should, and as I wish'd. I have sent this morning by the packet-boat, a bundle of three copies of the Henriade, with y r direction upon it, to be convey'd to you by the means of M r Dunoquet who lives at Calais and who will take care of sending them to you by the publick coach. If they are left at the custom house 3 at Paris, you may claim them, and they will be delivered to you. But I hope proper care shall be taken of conveying them to y r lodgings without giving you the trouble of asking for them. One of the books is for Tiriot tho he has utterly forgot me, and does not write me one single word either in french or english. He may get a good deal of money by printing it in France, but in case he attempts it I must at least be acquainted with his design, and I will send him many alterations and corrections which will do good to the work and more to him. You'll see by some annotations tack'd to my book, and fathered upon an english lord, that I am here a confessor of catholick relligion 4 . Tho the poem is written in a language not much admired here in regard to poetry, yet three editions have been made in less than three weeks, which I assure you I attribute intirely to the lucky subject I have pitch'd upon; and not at all to the performance. I do not send you yet my great edition, because I am really afraid of having not copies enough to answer the call of the subscribers. I have given notice to many a bookseller in France that my Henriade in quarto was ready to be delivered to the subscribers at a place which I have appointed in London. T'is at M rs Simon et Benezet, merchants by the royal exchange. They are so kind as to consent the book should be delivered at their house, to any body who will send see b my receipts. I desire you to tell Tiriot of it, that he may acquaint the world I am ready to satisfye the subscribers. I have been tempted to send you an essay of mine which I have been bold to print in english abov two months ago, but I dare not send any thing of that kind in to france before I have settled my affairs in that country. I have the misfortune to have lost all my annuities upon the town-house 5 for want of a formality; and now as I am struggling for their recovery, I think I am not to let the french court know that I think and write like a free englishman. I heartily wish to see you and my friends, but I had rather see them in england than in france. You who are a perfect briton, you should cross the channell and come to us. I assure you again that a man of y r temper would not dislike a country, where one obeys to the laws only and to one's whims. Reason is free here and walks her own way, hippocondriaks especially are well come. No manner of living appears strange; we have men who walk six miles a day for their health, feed upon roots, never taste flesh, wear a coat in winter thinner than y r ladies do in the hottest days. All that is accounted a particular reason, but taxed with folly by no body. Let us return to the Henriade again. Of those three volumes which are in a pacquet directed to you, I charge Tiriot to send one to my former friend miss Livry. Madame de Bernieres will read that of Tiriot, I intend hereafter to send her one for her library at Lariviere. But I desire Tiriot not to attempt any thing about the printing of my book, without acquainting me with it. I'll take it as a proof of his friendship to me. Farewell, I love you sincerely without any compliment or ceremony. March last [11 April 1728] c