Sir, As I am unacquainted with the time of your intended continuance at Potsdam, perhaps this direction may be more expedient than by a packet through Germany. I have been just honoured with your very obliging letter, and am extremely sorry you have been disappointed in the rest of my volumes, which my publisher informs me were delivered a considerable time ago to the master of a Dutch vessel bound for Rotterdam: however, I shall take care to send another set as soon as possible; though I think it will be more convenient to defer it till I can get the fourth volume from the press, which is almost printed off, and will give me a speedy opportunity of sending you the work complete. Truth and impartiality are more difficult to be found in the literary world, than honour and honesty are in the moral; though national partiality may not be discommendable; and, exclusive of that, I flatter myself I have consistently acted my duty. The generality of our nation are too credulously of opinion, that liberty confines her sacred influence peculiarly to Britain; but when I look through the political system of Europe, reason almost obliges me to dissent from this adopted tenet of my countrymen. I have been told by a nobleman, who is justly esteemed the ornament of this island, that of all absolute monarchies, Denmark is the most legal: but I am sensible, from the annals of France, that the constitution of your country is not inferior to the Danish government; and it stands, as an indubitable fact, that a sovereign of France may, if he pleases, convey a portion of felicity to his subjects, equal to what is enjoyed by the subjects of any one monarch in the universe. The constitution of Britain, we are fond to believe, is more consonant to the law of reason and the liberty of nature than the form of other legislatures; but I see no such material difference between an absolute regal government in France, and a ministerial aristocracy in other countries: I am glad to find the sentiments of liberty pronounced so freely by a subject of France; an Englishman can do no more. You, sir, may speak bold and open truths; but would you think that I cannot? or can you believe that several important facts have been communicated to me, which I durst not adventure to promulgate? though I have honestly reported those things, which you as honestly approved. Believe me, sir, I have experienced, and am equally conscious with yourself, that the burthen of so extensive a history is very heavy: you are infinitely more conversant with nature, men, and nations, than I am; your years give many advantages to your distinguished genius; but as I am now only twentyfive years of age, do not expect my performance to be either full of sagacity or elegance. I have, indeed, obtained some little reputation here; but I cannot flatter myself with the hopes of your approbation: however, your candour and humanity will accompany my youth and inexperience. I shall be proud of embracing every opportunity of testifying my regard for you; and, with the greatest sincerity, I am, sir, your very obedient servant, R. Rolt