Editorial comment : This letter is reconstructed from various catalogue descriptions for sales of the letter. Paris à l'hôtel de Conti 25 novembre 1740 [It is a duty to express his gratitude for his correspondent's kind offices with the king of Prussia. He is sensible as much of the kindness itself as of the courteous manner in which he has been told of it. But after having ardently desired what has been obtained for him, and indeed though still wishing it with even greater ardour, he finds himself stopped by two obstacles which he despairs of surmounting. One he has learned from m. de Chambrier, whom he has informed of his plans: it is that the booktrade not being on the same footing in Berlin as it is in Paris, he cannot flatter himself that the income from his work would enable him to keep himself as well there as in Paris. So he cannot expose himself to the embarrassements which the lack of this resource would entail. M. de Chambrier has mentioned to him, it is true, some posts suitable for a man of letters, such as that of librarian to his majesty, or as his Latin and French secretary; but these posts are no doubt occupied.] Qu'il est humiliant pour la philosophie de ne pouvoir se mettre au dessus des besoins du corps. [All the efforts he has made during the last two or three months to put his affairs in order so that he could leave France without reproach, have not succeeded in freeing him from all his debts; he cannot leave Paris without the funds for so long a journey; and he estimates that he would need four or five thousand francs to make his arrangements. Besides, it must not be forgotten that as soon as one sets out the value of one's money diminishes by half.] Voilà, monsieur, les difficultés qui m'arrêtent. Je serais parti si j'avois pu les vaincre, et vous proteste, comme je le faisais hier à m. de Chambrier, que je prendrai le chemin de la Prusse lorsque j'en aurai le pouvoir. Ne serait il ridicule que j'arrivasse à Berlin sans être en état d'y faire du moins le rôle que je fais ici parmi les honnêtes gens? et ne serait il pas encore plus que j'attendisse du roi de Prusse les secours sans lesquels je ne puis entreprendre raisonnablement le voyage? . . .