[ Geneva , 15 August 1755 ] [I have learned from m. Grasset, whom I have known for some time, that you were connected in a manner with the business of the bookselling establishment known under the name of Marc Michel Bousquet and company at Lausanne, and that, in conjunction with the persons forming this society, you have signed (for a certain person 1 whose power of attorney you possess) an agreement which he had communicated to me as a friend, to the effect that this society had taken him into its service, and had in consequence caused him to undertake the journey to Spain and other places. In order to merit this act of confidence which you have manifested towards him, he ought to neglect nothing dependent upon him to recognise this benefit, and render himself worthy of it by his attachment to the service of this society; but it would be very unfortunate for him if while he is doing his best to that end, others worked during his absence to sap the foundations of his undertaking by disparaging him in your mind and in that of many other persons. The affair which happened to him here with m. Voltaire, who I know is in correspondence with you, sir, has given rise to many reports to his disadvantage, which have no other foundations than those put forward by his enemies. Thus it is that truth once obscured with difficulty pierces the cloud with which a crafty imputation has enveloped it. I name here no one; I will content myself simply with telling you, sir, that having learned that there was a rumour at Lausanne of m. Grasset having been banished from Geneva upon leaving prison, I have thought myself obliged to say, sir, that the matter is absolutely false, and that Grasset came out of prison as soon as it was possible to throw full light on the cause which had conducted him there. He was therefore discharged as innocent. In consequence, his name has been stricken off the gaol-book and the register of prisoners, and when he left this town for the places of his destination en route for Spain, he had a passport of this town delivered in good and due form, signed by a councillor of state, and sent out from our chancellerie bearing its arms and seal. This, sir, is a document which should suffice to confound those who wish to ruin him by spreading abroad the rumour of his banishment. As to the other insinuations with regard to his service in the house of m. Cramer, a personal interview with you would be necessary to explain to you the facts. It will therefore suffice me for the present to tell you that he is completely covered by the receipt in good form which these gentlemen have given him after the settlement of their accounts with him. I have seen all these documents myself, together with all the correspondence which he has had since leaving these gentlemen. By this means I have also seen the correspondence he has had with the said Voltaire concerning a certain manuscript which has brought this thing upon him. He even said to me on this occasion that he had left with you one of the letters which m. Voltaire had written to him. As it may be of use to him with others which he already has before him from this gentleman and his secretary, if you would have the kindness to send it to him at his wife's address, you would oblige me greatly. I venture to persuade myself that however intimate your relations with m. Voltaire may be, the reputation of probity which attaches to you everywhere will not permit that an innocent person should be oppressed, or the means of shielding himself from the injustices to which he is exposed removed from him. I may tell you, sir, that I know m. Voltaire, and have had occasion to see him several times and give him a number of letters, manuscripts, and other similar things which m. le duc d'Uzès, premier peer of France, sent to me for him; but I promise myself that at the first opportunity I have of seeing him again I shall tell him that he has been fortunate in having to deal with a peaceable man, and that with any other person he would not have come off so happily. Neither science nor credit makes law. This principle well established, it might be extended almost indefinitely; but I have troubled you sufficiently with this matter, which I thought it my duty to place before you in the light of day, believing that you might be prejudiced, as others have been, as to the truth of this affair. I am delighted, moreover, that this opportunity has presented itself, enabling me to assure you of the sentiments of respectful and perfect consideration and the sincere devotion with which I have the honour to be etc.]