Turin , this 3rd day of August, 1756 [You will no doubt be surprised, sir, that a man who has not the advantage of being known to you should take the liberty to write to you. I had for a long time searched for the means which might procure me the pleasure of your correspondence. This ambition is too noble that I should not take the credit of it, even with regard to yourself. Born with a taste for literature and a certain talent for poetry, I have cultivated the little genius that I have by the perusal of the best authors of my country and of yours, among whom I owe much to your works. I had determined to give a translation of your fine tragedy of Alzire; the noble and grand sentiments which shine all through this piece has caused me to choose it above all the others, which, although of equal merit, appeared to me less suitable for the English theatre. I have just been interrupted in my work by one of my friends, who informs me that it has been translated already 2 . I have written to London to know the truth of the matter, but as they have been unable to enlighten me, I have taken the liberty of addressing myself to you, for you doubtless know better than any one if it has been translated or not. I blessed the opportunity which furnished me a pretext for asking you to enter into correspondence with me, of which in truth you alone will bear the expense; but you are so rich, sir, that you will be able easily to meet it. Will you therefore have the kindness to tell me if any one has anticipated me in the translation of Alzire? I am aware that several of your tragedies have already decorated the English stage, and the theatres of London and Dublin have re-echoed with as much applause when those pieces appeared as those of Paris. Two years ago I saw one of the theatres of Dublin torn to pieces in an instant by the furious spectators, because an imprudent actor had refused to repeat for the third time a scene of Zaïre 3 . Gengiscan 4 has just been translated into our language, and if I am not mistaken it has already been played. But as for Alzire, I have never heard it said that it had been translated. This long letter, which will appear to you so badly written, will perhaps make you fear to receive another; but I pray you to remember, sir, that when one writes for the first time to a man like you, one cannot write with all that familiarity which alone can give charm to letters. I have the honour to be, with a very profound respect, sir, your very humble and very obedient servant, etc. P.S. Will you have the kindness to address me at the Auberge d'Angleterre, at Turin.]