Nov. the 14 th [25 n. s. 1728] Parsons Green Sr, Your friend capt. Kingstone returning to Barbadoes, I take this occasion of assuring you of the satisfaction it was to me to be informed by him of yr good health, and of the kind reception you met with from everybody there. IfI were inclined to envy you anything which cld give you pleasure, it should be the enjoyment of that charming sun — which we so seldom see here, and which has been more cruel this winter than usually by almost a continual absence. Mrs Robinson 1 going to write to you very lamenting she had no news to tell you. However ill informed of the affairs of this world, and how they are like to go, you may be assured you know as much as the plenipotentiary at Soisson, perhaps as much as our ministers here, and all the discovery that we lookers on can make is that one week they doubt, and one week they hope. The city ofLondon follow their example, and this happens at Exchange Alley to be the doubting week. It is as hard to account for our politics as for mr Voltaire's resolutions and conduct; the country and people of England are in disgrace at present, and has taken his leave of us, as of a foolish people who believe in god and trust in ministers; and he is gone to Constantinople in order to believe in the gospels, which he says it is impossible to do living among the teachers of Christianity. He was mightily pleased with your translation of part of the book. We all wish you had leisure to do the whole. Mr Pope approved it so much that he assured me he would look it over with the utmost care if you proceeded and ever intended to publish it. After repeated assurances from great men that a war wd be avoided, and that we shld have peace in some shape or another, it is now very probable they will find themselves mistaken. Letters of mark are given to great Dutch and English East India men to take the Ostend ships beyond the Cape of Good Hope, and the soldiers are in full expectation of employment. I wish we do not repent the opportunities we have lost and the time we have given our enemies. I am, sr, Your most affectionate humble servant Peterborow