[October / November 1735] a I received your Magazines , Jacob's works 1 etc. and every thing shall be kept in good order to return in your hands when I'm at Paris. But why don't you send what you spoke to me of, concerning Mr. Voltaire, and cardinal Alberoni's letter? You may be sure I shall make the best use of it which is in my power. Perhaps you are angry at me, for not having spoken of the Julius Cœsar's death and the wrong edition of it; but Dear Sir if you remember that the same week I receiv'd your letter, your very same account 2 of M. Voltaire's Tragedy was publis'd in the Observations upon the modern Writings , by no means you can't take it ill that I would not be another's Echo , and humbly repeat what M. Desfontaines had told before me. There is no occasion wherein I'm not ready to declare myself one of Mr. Voltaire's admirers, though I'm told lately he has not spoken of me in the best terms of the world; but my heart if not my merit, is above these little trifles. I'm quite unk[n]own to Mr. Voltaire, and I'm as bold as to say that no body who knows both my person and my way of thinking and living can hate or contemn me. You expect no news from a poor countryman, who thinks himself alone upon the earth, so out of use he is of seing men or women in the most solitary place of the world 3 . When you have nothing better to do, could not you write to me, as bad and carelesly as you please, what you hear and see every day at Paris? I'm condemn'd to live here to the 10 th of december 4 , and no sollicitations could prevail on the Pope to lessen my spiritual punishment. Cleveland and that dear Fanny are not out of my mind, but great many friends of mine, on whoose counsels and wisdom I rely, advised me to publish no love-worcks till my retreat be over. T'is the only reason why the second part of Killerine has not been printed yet. No compliments for your Phychè 5 , since you thinck it so dangerous for my repose. I wo'nt see her more neither, till I have got hundered thousand a year. Then I can love, and tell it and hope to be well received. Farewell, Dear Sir. Have you seen M. de Chester 6 ? Your humble servant, l'abbé Prevost