e which interrupted all correspondence with your Majesty be still recent in my memory, the confidence with which you formerly honoured me, and the favours you heaped upon me, have made a far deeper impression upon my heart.Gratitude should stifle all resentment in a generous mind. Genius, talents, and the most sublime virtues, are ever taxed by humanity with some imperfections. In the impetuous whirlwind of youth, when the passions ferment, with almost irresistible violence, every thing is sacrificed to the pleasure of the senses. A variety of seducing objects that assail us, eclipse the feeble rays of that bud of reason which does not regain its empire, till age and reflection have conquered our most prevailing desires. The mask then drops — the illusions ceases, and all these brilliant chimeras, which had fascinated our bewildered imagination, are dissipated like an infectious vapour, which leaves nothing behind but disgust, aversion, and the keenest repentance. Slaves to opinion, and seduced by the ambition of passing for men of fashion, wits and geniuses (above vulgar prejudice) we despise, as popular errors, the most important, the most sacred truths; and our eyes only begin to open, when old age, anticipated by all the refinements of voluptuousness, leaves us no other sensations but those of regret and pain — the fatal consequences of a prophane dissolute life! It is in this interval, which succeeds the tranquility of the passions, and is the prelude to the horrors of the grave, that the most bitter reflections, and the most cruel remorse of a conscience justly alarmed, poison the last period of our existence, happy if our enfeebled organs, do not reduce our faculties to mere animal instinct, and leave us any vestiges of a thinking being! Perhaps a puerile imbecility concludes our excesses and sacriligious pursuits. What a dreadful state is a transition, without recollection from libertinism and impiety to the supreme tribunal of the incorruptible jugde of the whole universe! The infallibility which every man of the least eminence in the republic of letters, seems to arrogate to himself in the most singular opinions; the pre-eminence which he claims over his antagonists; the shame of retracting favourite errors, supported by fallacious sophisisms, and publicly promulgated; the fear of losing a reputation gained by illusive paradoxes and an inchanting stile; a pusillanimous deference for the judgment of some writers, fearful of their enmity and censure, are commonly the motives that induce to persevere to the end in the avowal of maxims the most pernicious to society, against self-conviction. Rank, titles, and fame, give credit to the most odious principles, and the most perverse notions. The multitude, who receive no impression but from the reputation of those who govern and instruct them, adopt, without daring to reflect upon, or examine the most extravagant dogmas of these preceptors to human nature, and are less influenced by their own judgment, than the idea they have fram'd of the certainty of these pedants decisions. Hence arises that contagious depravity, which honour, a sentiment unknown to the multitude, cannot stop, without the auxiliary aid of a sublime moral, and a religion calculated for the mutual good of sovereign and nations. Powerful, formidable monarchs, who command millions of men, and invincible legions! that religion which you despise, and whose must sacred precepts you turn into ridicule, is, nevertheless, the strongest buttress to your thrones, and the most respectable tie of society; the most certain guarantee of your authority, and the subordination of the people: — it is religion that must be responsible for their fidelity and service, which compels them to lavish their blood and fortunes for your defence and preservation; by this good order, peace and harmony are supported among your subjects, as, well as that spirit of concord and universal benevolence, which unite them like one great family. In fine, it is religion that stops the regicide hand of a malecontent proscribed and disgraced, and prevents his avenging your violence and injustice. Were there no religion, each one would give a loose to his passions; each one would exert his strength to oppress the weak, his cunning to deceive the simple, his eloquence to seduce the credulous, his credit to destroy the commerce, his power to promulgate terror, horror, bloodshed, carnage — shocking disorders in themselves, but necessary upon the principle of incredulity. Terrestrial honour is but a superficial virtue, the art of disguising one's self to the eyes of man, to deceive with politeness, rather to appearance virtuous, than really be so. Know your interests better; instead of forcing all the trenches that God has raised against the wickedness of human nature, encouraging your subjects to be obstinately incredulous, in order to be peaceable villains; to give the lie to heaven, earth, the sea, nature, and all the elements; support by your edicts and your example religion as a revelation derived from Heaven, and founded upon a thousand proofs; anticipate the progress of evil, and form youth so as to be able to withstand the impression of incredulity and libertinism. How corrupt must we be to hate a religion, without which we cannot avoid being miserable? Do not the happiest of men stand in need of its assistance? How much uneasiness affails the throne! How many disgraces attend a court! How various the mortifications in the army! What enumerable accidents wait on trade! How uncertain is science! What bitters are blended with the greatest pleasures! To how many attacks are the best reputations subject! What inconstancy is there in riches! What infidelity in friendship! What vicissitudes in fortune! Miserable man, who will support thee against so many evils! What a shocking consolation we receive from the passions in these dreadful periods of our life! How incapable is even philosophy to relieve a wretched mortal in the bed of infirmity, racked with the gout, and tortured with the stone! Oh! how necessary is religion, particularly at that fatal crisis which terminates all the steps of our life. What can support a man tilting against death, that that grim king of terrors, if it be not religion! A man who sees his greatness humbled, his treasures seized upon, his dearest ties destroyed, his senses benumbed, his grave dug, the world vanishing from his sight, and his soul divided between the fate of annihilation, and the horrid fear of being delivered up to an avenging God! The Deist, in admitting the existence of a supreme Being creator of the universe, maintains that this first Being is too great and too high to cast his eyes down upon the earth, and attend to the words of a creature as mean and indigent as man; but is this the idea we should entertain of the Deity? The direction of the course of the sun, the government of the world, the formation of the multitude of beings, which are created in nature, the conduct of the universe, cannot exhaust this intelligence, who is the object of our devotion. Whilst his thoughts, in their vast extent, embrace all possible existing creatures, he has present before his eyes each individual, as he was occupied with one sole object. The Dispenser of scepters and crowns has placed you, Sire, at the head of a nation, powerful and warlike, which you have formed by your instruction and your example, Your knowledge, and your writings, have secured you the pre eminence in the empire of letters: the wisdom of your institutions, and your foundations, your admirable sagacity in the art of governing, and the internal police of your states, have justly conferred upon you the titles of politician and legislator. Your victories, your triumphs, and your conquests, have made you the arbiter of the fate of Europe. What a pity would it be if such extensive knowledge, such talents, and virtues, should obtain temporary honour, and distinctions; if your Majesty should pervert those gifts of heaven for the misery and desolation of mankind! You have nothing left to desire in this world Sire, but the august title of Christian Hero. My wishes for your Majesty have a more extensive object than transitory happiness. You may, Sire, give the world the magnanimous example of the sublime virtues of christianity, and publickly disavow, as I do at present, those erroneous principles and impious opinions, which will otherwise be transmitted with your writings to posterity. I have the honour to be, with the most profound veneration, Sire, Your Majesty's most humble, And most obedient servant, Arouet de Voltaire