Sir, Tho' I have, really, no skill in the French — and am (perhaps; for that reason), not overfond of the language, yet, I read it with pleasure, in respect to the writers of that nation; and have seldom been more strongly delighted, than with the tragedy of Zaire . I had seen nothing of mr Voltaire's before, except the Henriade ; and whether it was from my own want of taste , or the poem's want of fire , I found it too cold, for an epic spirit; so conceiv'd but a moderate opinion, as to the dramatic attempts of the same author: — but, genius being limited, we act too rash, and unreasonable a part, when we judge after so general a manner. Having been agreably disappointed in Zaire , it was due, as an atonement, that I should contribute, to widen his applause, whom I had thought of, too narrowly. I have, therefore, made this tragedy speak English, and shall bring it on the stage, in a month, or two; where, though I have no interest in its success, I should be vex'd to have it miscarry; because it is certainly, an excellent piece, and has not suffer'd, I hope, so much in the translation, as to justify a cold reception at London, after having run into the most general esteem at Paris. I will do all, in my power, to prepare the town to receive it, to which end I have given the profits to a gentleman, whose acquaintance is too large for his fortune ; and your good taste and good nature, assure me of your willing concurrence, so far, as not only to say of it, what it deserves, but, to say it at such times, and in such manner, as you know best how to choose; in order to give your recommendation the intended good consequence. Lord Bolinbroke was a patron of mr Voltaire, and can effectually advance the reception of his play, among those who are most his friends, and best able to support it, at its appearance. I have ventur'd to ask it in the author's behalf; and beg, you would convey the letter and translation, to my lord's hands, as soon as you please, after you have read them. I would desire you to excuse this trouble, if it were not to look, like a distrust of that delight, which, I know, it gives you, when you have an opportunity put into your hands, to do a kind, or a generous action… I am, Yours & c. A. Hill