Berlin , 27 mars [1752] b Dear s r , My Lewis the fourteenth is on the Elbe about a month ago. J do'nt know wether the grand monark has put to sea to invade Great Britain, but book-sellers are greater politicians than Lewis and j. It is very likely they have prevented me by sending my book to London by the way of Roterdam, while my bale of printed tales, is on the Elbe, and so they will reape all the benefit of my labours, according to the noble way of the world. My books is prohibited amongst my dear countrymen, because j have spoken truth, and the delais of cargoes, and the jarring of winds hinder if from pursuing his journey to England. So have j to fight against sea and earth, and hell for booksellers are the hell of writers. Be what it will receive dear s r my cargoe of printed sheets when winds and storms will permitt. Do what you please with them, J am resign'd. J had rather to be read than to be sold. Truth is above trade, and reputation above money. J am sorry that England is sunk into romances, the time of Newton, Loke, Pope, Adisson, Steele, Swift, is gone. It seems all the world is degenerated. If you have a mind to amuse you and my lady Fawkener with excellent french performances, there are few of that kind in any country what ever. The best books I know in regard to history are these: La conspiration de Venize de l'abbé de s t -Rëal 2 , a work equal to Salust, and the original of y r Venice preserv'd 3 . La décadence de L'empire par M r Montesquieu 4 . Les réflexions sur les Romains de s t Real 5 et même de s t Evremont 6 . La traduction française de l'histoire latine de de Thou, but it is a great undertaking to read so voluminous a book 7 . L'histoire de la ligue de Cambray, par l'abbé du Bos 8 , très bon ouvrage. La conquête de la Franche Comté par Pélisson 9 . Les mémoires du duc de Sully, premier ministre de Henry 4, rédigez par l'abbé de l'Ecluse 10 , a most curious, instructive and pleasant work. Les mémoires du cardinal de Rets, worthy of an englishman 11 . Les mémoires de madame sister to king Charles the second, par madame la comtesse de la Fayette 12 . Les mémoires de Joli, secrétaire du cardinal de Rets 13 . Les mémoires du dernier duc de Guise 14 qui se rendit maître de Naples. L'Histoire du duc de Guise le balafré par Valincourt 15 . Les mémoires d'Espagne par mad e de Launoy 16 , the only histori where spanish customs are to be found. La vie du duc d'Epernon par Girard 17 . You know it. Les lettres de madame de Sevigné 18 , where several particular facts are lively describ'd. Les mémoires de l'abbé de Montgon 19 . There are private transactions of Spain. La vie de Henri quatre par Perefixe 20 . Le triumvirat de Vertot 21 . Sa révolution de Portugal 22 . La vie du feu duc d'Orleans 23 . Tho writ in Holland and not clear of errors, yet there are many truths. The author is a jesuit who abjur'd Loyola and France. He was formerly preceptor to the earl d'Argenson, now secretari of state. All these books concerning history may be entertaining. J do not mention the best performances celebrated through all Europe: Le discours de M. Bossuet, évêque de Meaux, sur l'histoire universelle 24 , L'histoire ancienne de Rolin 25 . As to Romances j hope you and y r lady you do not care very much for them. Yet there are some writ in a very lively manner. Nothing is more pleasing in that scurrilous c way than the performances of our Hamilton 26 , born in France of a Scottish family. We have many voiages usefull and entertaining, those of Chardin 27 , Tavernier 28 , Bernier 29 , La Loubere 30 , Fourbin 31 etc. Labat d 32 . As to miscelaneous works, La Rochefoucaut 33 , le Menagiana de la Monoye 34 , Pascal 35 , La Bruiere 36 , s t Real 37 , s t Evremond 38 in some places may be read with much pleasure. There are very curious performances in the mémoirs de l'académie des belles lettres. For the Spanish authors j know not many worthy of y r perusal, besides don Guixote in point of ridicule, the conquest of Mexico 39 as to history, and Quevedo 40 in point of imagination. Italy will afford you the old fruits of its soil, Guicciardino 41 un poco cicalatore, Machiaveli il Tito Livio di Firenze, fra Paolo Sarpi 42 savio nemico della chieza romana. But the last centuries are barren in Itali: the inquisition hath damp'd the genious of that warm climate. The country of August and Horace is but the land of priestood and priestcraft. Even the whole Italy where every body, priests and jades make sonnetos, has not at this time one tolerable poet. All Europe seems stinted to mediocrity in every kind. But you are one of the most amiable souls that any age produc'd, and j am for ever y r with the most tender gratitude V.