Carlsruhe , October 22, 1795 I have returned from a court, Sir, of which you are the idol; all who compose it render you homage, cherish you, regret you, think Switzerland too happy to possess you. What satisfaction did I not feel at proving to them, by my admiration and my attachment, that we knew how to appreciate the happiness we enjoy too rarely! I spent a month very agreeably at Lunéville. The good king vegetates, and by his impatience abridges still more the few days he has to live. The court is numerous, but, like the Jesuits, they each have a foot in the stirrup, ready to disperse at his death. Madame la marquise de Boufflers is still there, safely anchored with all her family; she is charming and kind, and employs her credit only in doing good. Her son, the chevalier, makes the prettiest verses, rides horses to death, and is greatly loved by all, having Ferney always for the object of his travels. They are very good to my youngest son; their kindnesses, with which I am much touched, cannot be enumerated. I have arranged his little establishment at the Academy, where he is very comfortable through the help and the friendships which he has received. I have the best evidence of it and the best hopes. I have succeeded, not without trouble, in procuring my eldest son's discharge from the Würtemburg service; he is going to enter the Swiss guards in France. They are now both in that service, but as Swiss. I would have liked to see them there as Frenchmen. I have returned again for some time to Carlsruhe, where their highnesses recall with delight the days you granted them of your company. They have charged me to remember them to you with all the sentiments with which you have inspired them, and to mention the joy they would experience in seeing again that incomparable and adorable Monsieur de Voltaire. With them we lead a philosophical life which has many attractions. Each of them might be held up as an example, both as private individuals and as royalties. The comparison with the neighbouring duchies is certainly in their favour; and the comparison between the life of sovereigns and that of republicans is in favour of the latter, which shows that, although agreeably situated, once my mind is at rest with regard to my children, Monrepos and the happiness of making court to you at Ferney will limit my desires and my ambition. Will Mme d'Enis accept my most tender obediences, and do not forget me to mme Dupuis and the persons who have the pleasure to live under your auspices. I have the honour to offer you, not the incense due to you, but the consideration and the attachment for you, sir, with which our hearts are filled. de Gentil-Langalerie Madame la marquise des Harmoise 1 has charged me with so many messages, sir, that I can only mention the sentiments of attachment which she preserves for you, and which she begs you to return to her.