London 21 a april o. s. [2 May 1728] My dear Tiriot, j write to you in english, for the same reason that abbot Boylau wrote in latin, j mean that j should not be understood by many b over curious people 1 . That j love you is very certain, that j never receiv'd a letter from you these ten months, and that j should have receiv'd 'em had you written any, is equally trüe. J pardon y r neglect you lazy creature, but j don't forgive y r telling me you have written ten letters, when you have writ none. J thank you extreamly for y r having drudg'd and dansed many an attendance for my sake at Bologne's 2 , and at the treasury 3 . J do not wonder at y r kindness, nor at the bad success, since misfortune attends me every where. As to the Henriade, j think you may easily get a private licence of printing it. J intend in about a fortnight c hence to ask d that licence. In the mean time you must go to m r Heraut, the lieutenant De e police. J have already sent one copy of the Henriade to him, and intreated him to seize f all the copies which might steal into France till j had leave from the government to publish the book. J have assur'd him j would never g- send in to -g france any thing without the consent of the ministery. Therefore it will be very proper for you, to speak to him in the same manner, and to inform him, that the person 4 you speak of h undertakes an edition of the Henriade, contrary to my honour, to my interest, and to the laws. Sure m r Herault will send for him, and forbid him to i medle with such an undertaking. The lieutenant De e police will do it the more readily, the more you shall inform him of the man's behaviour, j- and of -j his having been already guilty once of the like. Depend upon't the man will be terrified from his undertaking. In the mean time, we will get our private license k and in case the license k is granted, j advise you to make a bargain with some notable booksellers, then j will send you my plates 5 with some sheets of a 4. edition large paper l begun in London, with the essay on epick poetry in french, and calculated for the french meridian 6 . The book-seller must make two editions, on in 4. for my own account, and another in octavo for y r benefit. But nothing can succeed to our advantage and to my honour, unless you go to m r Herault, and implore his assistance against the interlopper. Whoever 7 , j think you should see the interloper and tell him only you have acquainted me with his design, that he should do nothing about the poem without consulting me about many alterations j have made since the publication. Tell him besides j disaprove intirely his design of translating my english essay, since j have translated m it my self 8 ; that little pamphlet could not succeed in France without being dressed in quite an other manner. What j say of Milton cannot be understood n- by the -n french unless j give o a fuller notion of that author. The stile besides is after the english fashion, so many similes, so many things which appear but easy and familiar here, would seem to low to y r wits of Paris. In short j know nothing so impertinent as to go about to translate me in spight p of my teeth. In fine y r business must be to gain time with him, to terrify him by m r Herauts means, and to obtain of m r Herault that he will hinder not only the man , but every body else from publishing the book. J advise you too to go to m r de Maisons and to lay the case before him. He is very great with the q keeper of the sceals 9 , and may easily in a few days help us to a private license k . You must r direct for the future all y r letters to m rs Simon and Benezet marchands s , t Nicolas street 10 , London. Take care of y r health, use much exercice, keep y r body open, y r mind easy, eat little, despise the world, love me, and be happy. Farewell. My services to any body who will remember me. How does mad e de Bernieres? Jll send her my great edition by the next opportunity. The silly criticism which is prefixed u to one of the editions j have sent to you is writ v by one Faget , an enthousiastic refugiee who knows w neither x english nor french. J hear some of y r impertinent witts in Paris have fathered it upon me.