I address myself to you, Madam, as to the freind of the Stranger. I have the honour of knowing you to be such from most agreable experience; for, yesterday at dinner you not only entertained me with easy and chearfull conversation, but took care that I should have a double portion of the sweet tart which I am so extremely fond of. You may remember, Madam, that I exprest my affection for that dish in the strongest manner; Je suis attaché à la Tourte; I spoke in character; for I spoke with that honest frankness with which I declare my sentiments on great & on small occasions. At no time shall I ever deny my Faith, my freind, my mistress or my tart. I present myself in my natural character, which I find suits me the best of any. I own tha[t I hav]e b in some periods of my life assumed the characters of others whom I admired: But, as David found the armour of Saul 1 , I found them by much too heavy for me, and like David was embarrassed, and unable to move with freedom. I hope, Madam, I may be allowed to quote the old Testament once to the niece of a Gentleman who has quoted it so often. I do not however think lightly of my own character. No, Madam. I am proud enough. The French say: Fier comme un Ecossois; It shall not be my fault if that Proverb goes out of use. I must beg your interest, Madam, in obtaining for me a very great favour from M. de Voltaire. I intend to have the honour of returning to Ferney Wednesday or Thursday. The gates of this sober City shut at a most early, I had very near said a most absurd hour, so that one is obliged to post away after dinner, before the illustrious Landlord has had time to shine upon his Guests. Besides I believe M. de Voltaire is in opposition to our Sun, for, he rises in the evening. Yesterday he shot forth some rays. Some bright sparks fell from him. I am happy to have seen so much. But I greatly wish to behold him in full blaze. Is it then possible, Madam, that I may be allowed to lodge one night under the roof of M. de Voltaire? I am a hardy & a vigourous Scot. You may mount me to the highest & coldest Garret. I shall not even refuse to sleep upon two chairs in the Bedchamber of your maid. I saw her pass thro’ the room where we sat before dinner. I beg you may let me know if the favour which I ask is granted, that I may bring a nightcap with me. I would not presume to think of having my head honoured with a nightcap of M. de Voltaire. I should imagine that like the invisible cap of Fortunatus, or that of some other celebrated magician, it would immediatly convey to me the qualitys of it's master; and I own to you Madam, my head is not strong enough to bear them. His Poetical cap I might perhaps support; but, his Philosophical one would make me so giddy, that I should not know which way to turn myself. All I can offer in return for the favour which I ask is many many thanks; or if M. de Voltaire's delicate french ear would not be offended, I might perhaps offer him a few good rough english verses. Pray, Madam, give me your interest. I would also beg the Assistance of my Reverend Father the young man of sixty, the Student of our language, the disbanded soldier of the Company of Jesus. Sure a Lady and a Priest must prevail. I have the honour to be Madam your very humble servant Boswell