Lyons (1769/1770) I have just met with a singular incident with that 'barbouilleur de papier' Fréron. Here are the facts: About a year ago I was at supper in a certain house where we were playing at vingt-et-un , a game much in vogue here, and one of the company said to me, 'Laméry, you ought to compose a little comedy on Vingt-et-un . It would draw the whole town.' This idea ran in my head the remainder of the evening, and on returning home I began to write, and did not give up until my Vingt-et-un 1 was finished. The next day I took my kind of comedy to the censor; I ask permission to have it played, which is granted. The piece is rehearsed and posted; on the day before the representation I am forbidden to bring it out, under the pretext that I had introduced several persons of the town into the piece; it was not, however, my intention to do so, and I had not even thought of it. Disappointed at not being able to give my Vint-et-un , which, poor as it is, would have drawn a very good house, I decided to have it printed 1 . I sold many copies, and apparently one fell into the hands of Fréron, and this animal, instead of striving to use his efforts so that he may be able to give an account of some good book, straightway fills four pages of his wretched paper to cry down a trifle which was only composed as a bit of pleasantry on society. This is how he ends his criticism: 'All the advice I can give to the author is to write no more comedies and to confine himself to acting'. This is my reply: 'You must have a great deal of time at your disposal, m. Fréron, to amuse yourself with analysing a trashy piece which was not worth the honour of being cited. What! for such a wretched thing you fill four pages of your delicious paper? Ah, m. Fréron, you scarcely know the value and the usefulness of your time; you are too prodigal. And why? for nothing. I do not write with the intention of excusing myself for the poorness of my piece, but I am quite sure that I was not so long in composing it as you were in making your criticism. Moreover, sir, I thank you for your advice. I shall profit by it; I shall make no more comedies; I shall confine myself to acting. There are days when I perform in it with pleasure. Adieu, m. Fréron, until our next meeting. I am going to dress for the part of lord Murray in l'Ecossaise.' I have sent my letter to the Mercure , but I do not know if they will accept it. Pardon, pardon, a thousand pardons, sir, for having taken the liberty of importuning you on such a subject. Permit me, I pray you, to profit by this circumstance to thank you for the kindness you had for me during the little time that I had the honour to remain in your house, at the moment of mlle Clairon's visit. What delicious moments! Ah, sir, I can only recall them with emotion. How can I prove to you my gratitude? I know not. There are moments when no expression can render the sensibility with which the soul is affected. This is my position; I can offer you only a respectful silence; accept it, I beseech you, as an assured proof of the admiration to which you have given rise, and of the sentiments which you have inspired in me. I have the honour to be, with every possible consideration, sir, your very humble and very obedient servant, Lamery, of the king at Lyons P. S. But, sir, can you imagine this Fréron? On the first and single occasion that I do a little scribbling, he wages a terrible war against me — against me who have never said anything to him — to him who has never done anything else all his life but scribble.