anuary 1732] a Mylord, J hope you have receiv'd the Book j had the honour to send y r lordship lately. Now j take the liberty to present you a friend of mine who is certainly better than my book and much dearer to me. J envy him the pleasure of waiting on y r lordship and j think my self banish'd and confined in to my own country when j reflect my friend will enjoy the honour of y r charming conversation. He is fully acquainted with the high sense of respect and gratitude which j entertain for y r lordship and mylady Hervey. He has seen already the pretty account of y r journey into Italy, which you favoured me with. J had once the Boldness to attempt a kind of translation of it or rather a loose imitation for french poetry is not strong enoug to stik closely to your. Trhougout 1 all Italy beside b What does one find, but want and pride, Forces of superstitious folly, Decay, distress and melancoly, etc. There is my c flat copy of this bold original. Qu'ai-je donc vu dans l'Italie? Orgeuil, astuce, et pauvreté, Peu d'agrémens, moins de bonté, Mais baucoup de Cérimonie: L'extravagante comédie Qu’à Rome l'inquisition Veut qu'on nomme relligion Mais qu'icy nous nommons folie. La nature envain bienfaisante Veut enrichir ces lieux charmants; Des prêtres la main désolante Etouffe ses plus baux présents; Les monsignores soit disant grands Seuls dans des palais magnifiques Y sont d'illustres fainéants Sans argent et sans domestiques. Pour les petits, sans liberté, Martirs du joug qui les domine, Ils ont fait vœu de pauvreté, Priant dieu par oisiveté Et toujours jeunant par famine. Ces saints lieux du papes bénis Semblent gouvernez par des diables Et les habitans misérables Sont damnez dans le paradis. Let not your lordship receive my friend coldly because my verses are perhaps very cold. My heart shall never by so for y r lordship, j'll nevre forgot mylord and mylady Harvey. Pone me campis ubi nulla pigris Arbor æstiva recreatur umbra Dulce ridentes harveos amabo Dulce loquentes, 2 that is to say j'll be for ever mylord and mylady, with the highest respect y r most humble and obedient servant Voltaire