Dear Sir, The French I write, bad as it is, being much less easy to me than English, I shall now follow your example, & shall answer you in y e same language you write in. I have perused your papers w th singular pleasure, & am not at all surpris'd to find that y e doubts of some persons are much clearer than y e decisions of others. But as you have the talent beyond all Mankind, except y e Marchioness du Chastellet, who has found the secret of making M r Leibnitz himself to speak clearly, of rendering intelligible to others, whatever you conceive yourself, it is for that very reason y e more incumbent upon you to be sure that your conceptions are just, & it is y e more y e duty of those you consult, to apprise you of y e least suspicion they may have, whether you are in y e right, or not. For which reason, & because doubts are apt to beget doubts, I must acquaint you, that either I do not rightly comprehend your meaning, or else there is something amiss in y e following articles, w ch therefore I beg you will reconsider 1re partie. Art. XI, XVI. 2me partie. Art. 2, 9 à l'égard de la gravitation. You see, S r , the liberty I take; it is owing to y e sincerity I have always practised, especially when any of my friends have consulted me before publication, & I ought to use it with you above all others, because your notions, true or false, always leave either a clear conviction, or at least a strong persuasion in y e reader's mind. It were great pity therefore, that one so well qualified to preach y e truth, should ever be employed in propagating any unorthodox opinions. As for our Society I shall lay your papers before them when ever you please, but you must not expect any decision; for We are no less dubious & uncertain at London, than you are at Paris. We never decide but upon facts only, & leave all reasoning to y e judgement of y e Publick, to whom indeed it properly belongs. If you cannot convert Madame du Chastellet a , Pray Heaven convert her, else I doubt she'll pervert both you & me. I am, Sir, Your most faithfull & most obedient servant, Ja s Jurin Austin Fryars June 23 1741 You have this consolation however, that your arguments must be reckoned so much the stronger; for the force of arguments, as well as force of bodies in motion, is to be estimated not by what they do, but by what they fail of accomplishing. Pray Heaven b