near London 1 27 may n. s. 1727 Mon cher Tiriot j'ay receu bien tard à la campagne où je suis retiré, votre aimable lettre du premier avril. You can't jmagine with what sense of sorrow j have read the account you gave me of y r sickness. J have carried my concern for you further than an ordinary friendship could allow. Remember the time when j was used to write to you that j believ'd you had a fever upon you whenever j had an ague. That a time is come again. J was very ill in england while you suffered so much in france. And y r absense added a new bitterness to my sufferings. Now j hope you are better, since j begin to revive. J hear that m r Gulliver is now translated and takes pretty much. J wish the translation could be your. But j am affraid the abbot has outrun you and reap'd the benefit which such a book b- should have -b procur'd to you. You must have receiv'd the two books address'd to m e de Bernieres from Calais, and convey'd by the stage coach c . If you intend seriously to make a translation of some valuable book, j advise you to sit still a month or two, to take care of y r health and to improve d your english till the book 2 of m r Pemberton comes out. This book is an easie, clear and regular explanation of sir Jsaac Newton's philosophy, which he undertakes to make palatable to the most unthinking men. It seems the man intends to writ chiefly for y r nation. If j am in England when the book shall be publish'd j will not fail of sending it to you with the utmost speed. If e j am abroad, as j f- will be -f in all likelood 3 , j will order my bookseller to send g you the book by the first oportunity. I fancy it will be an easie task to translate it, the language being very plain, and all the terms of philosophy being just the same in french and in english. Take care only not to be outvied for the future by any priest. Be cautious in the choice of those you will consult about y r translation. J fancy the bishop of Rochester 4 is h more amiable an acquaintance, and a less dangerous one than the priest you speak of. But j believe you are now in Normandy mending your health Loytering with mad e de Berniere and talking of phisick with Desalleurs. J must acquaint you my dear that there is an engine in England to take a clister, which is a master piece of art, for you may carry it in your fob and make use of it whenever and in what place you please. If ever j enjoy the pleasure of seeing you again, be sure to have half a dozen of those delightful engines. Farewell. Don't talk of i the ocasional writter 5 . Do not say it is not of myl. b. Do not say it is a wretched performance. You can't be j judge neither of the man, nor of t'his writing 6 . Adieu mon très cher amy. k Je viens d’écrire un thème anglois au chevalier des Alleurs. J'ay adressé la lettre quay des Theatins. S'il ne l'a pas reçüe, il faut l'en avertir et qu'il ne la perde point, car j'y ay mis toute ma médecine. Adieu, portez vous bien. Non vivere sed valere vita. 7 If you want to enter in to a course of strict diet begin soon and keep it long. To morrow j will live, the fool does say, To day's too late, the wise liv'd yesterday. 8 J am the fool, be the wise and farewell.