[ Paris , May 2, 1764 My dear benefactor, Upon my arrival here I sent the letter which you had the goodness to give me for mme la duchesse de Gramont. At the same time I wrote one to her in which I told her of my regrets that circumstances prevented my calling upon her in person, and that fearing to compromise myself with my masters I was compelled to keep myself in retirement until my fate was decided. She replied to me today the most graciously in the world, confirming all the goodwill of her father. Accept my sincere thanks for it, sir, for it is you that I shall owe everything that this lady has the kindness to do for me. Having no other merit or recommendation with her except what your kindness will provide, I take the liberty to ask you to write to her again if, as I do not doubt, she replies to your letter; and be kind enough to enter into a few details as to your opinion of my humble talents, and what is known to you of the consideration which I and my family enjoy in Switzerland. This second letter becomes necessary to me, because on one side my friends have no opportunity to speak of me to this lady, and on the other it is to be feared that the Swiss whom she sees are unfavourable to me. That is the opinion which has been given to me. I am so accustomed to look upon you as our father, our protector, that I employ without discretion the rights this title gives me over you. I have had propositions made to me which did not suit me, and I am hoping for something better. M. le duc de Choiseul wrote to my friend: If M. Constant will give himself the trouble to kill a Swiss colonel, I will certainly give him a regiment immediately . And mme de Gramont writes that he is as willing to provide an agreeable and easy post for me as I am to receive it. These matters are promising, but we have need of the deepest secrecy, for all the nation is on the watch. It is thought desirable to create a post of major-general of the Swiss, but there are innumerable difficulties. The king is supposed to have said, All the favours are for the Swiss . I hope that on the next journey to Marly my fate will be decided, and I shall not fail to inform you of everything that is connected with it. In the meantime I am a prisoner here in the house of my inspector, and as ignorant of what is going on in Paris as if I were at Hermenches. The inspector inhabits the pretty house of the late bishop of Rennes — a residence really worthy of a voluptuary. We chat, we make plans, we read some of your works, and to amuse ourselves we compose songs. I have told my inspector that I wish you knew what an indecent fellow he is. Here are some of the couplets of his composition; he will be furious with me for sending them to you, and as for me I know that they will make you laugh. I have hopes, so far as my father is concerned, but we must wait until the regiments are formed. I trust that you will pardon me if I date letters that I wrote in Switzerland and Holland from your house; it is always there that my heart will be, and it is the easiest thing to persuade myself that I am there also in person. Accept all the good wishes that I form for your welfare and your health, and the assurance of the respectful attachment of your very humble servant. C. d'H. My address is, To the care of M. le Baron de Basenwald, inspector of the Swiss troops, rue de Grenelle, Faubourg St Germain, Paris.]