[Paris 13 May 1732] b I thank you heartily, for y r charming letter, and for the craftsman 1 you send me. I am not wholly displeased to see that my works are now and then the ground upon which the republicans point c their artillery against ministery, but never J would utter a single word that could be shocking to a free and generous nation which d J admire, which J regret, and to whom J am indebted. It is to be imputed to the printer that these words are to be found in my preface, les anglois d'aujourdui e ne ressemblent pas aux anglois de Cromwell . He should have printed aux fanatiques de Cromvel and thus it is to be read in the errata, and in the late editions. J entreat you therefore to clear me, from that aspersion, for y r friend's and for truth's sake. The abbot Rotelin 2 to whom J speak of f you as often as j see him, desires you would be so kind as to get him the collection of all the craftsmen, and to send him for the future every one that shall come out. He does not understand english, and he says he asks it for one of his friends who is a great master of the english language. Tell me by which way you will send him that collection he desires so earnestly. He will be very punctual e- in returning the money -e . Yesterday J went to y r divinity miss Salé whom j found musing with y r Brother and the young Bernard. She complained of my negligence towards her picture, Bernard swore he had wrote nothing about so fair a subject, J was inspired suddenly by her presence and j broke out in these g verses, Les feux du dieu que sa vertu condamne Sont dans ses yeux, à son cœur inconnus, En soupirant on la prend pour Diane Qui vient danser sous les traits de Venus. Eriphile has not been rewarded with a great success. J was ready to give it to the press, but this very hour j am determin'd not even to print it, at least to let it wait in my closet, till j may turn a fresh eye upon it, and make new corrections with a cool head. Tell me what way j mai send you the tragedy h of Julius Cesar, for you have not the right copy. As to the english letters, be sure j'll put the last hand to them in a very short time. J have nothing at heart but the pleasure of study, and the desire of y r return. J never go out of doors i , j see no body but at home. J hope to employ such a studious leisure with Eriphile, the english letters, and the age of Lewis the 14th 3 . Mean while, my dear friend do not forget my plates 4 . Remember me to all my english friends, lords, players, marchants, priests, whores, poets, and generally to all who may think of me. Farewell, i love you for ever. j J know Bernard has secretly copyed the compliment which was uttered by Dufrene to the lords of the pit. J am sorry Bernard has deprived me of k the pleasure to send it to you, but j should complain l more of you, if this copy of verse, hastily written, and unworthy of you, should ever be published. The say here the new opera is written by Bernard, if it is true, j wish him success. Others sai Roy is the author of it, if so, may it be hissed 5 . Farewell again my friend. V. J have lost y r adress, and j direct this to y r brother.