Blandford , 9th March, 1761 My Lord, Having been from quarters some few days on account of my health I had not an opportunity of seeing Mr. Voltaire's letter to your Lordship, and the answer till yesterday. The frequent opportunities I had of conversing with that great genius, during my last stay abroad, gave me a thorough insight into his character; and I remember it was not without that sensible pleasure with which I read all your Lordship's writings, that I observ'd with how much delicacy you treated him in your Dialogues of the Dead. I find that he is much hurt at the name of exile 1 , and yet that voluntary banishment which he now chuses to call his retreat in Suisse, was always consider'd by the sensible people of that country as the effect of prudence rather than of choice. He had taken a house at Lausanne on a lease of nine years; he had paid the rent for the whole term in advance, and had expended a very large sum, in fitting it up according to his own taste and convenience. It was at this time, that I was first known to him, was with him frequently in his hours of gaiety, and those of a very different complexion. His favourite theme in all humours, was, Je ne suis pas Français, except when his vanity prompted him to read us the accounts which he regularly received of real or imaginary victories gained by his countrymen. He was upon these occasions as arrant a Frenchman as the most illiterate of his nation, and received the most glaring political absurdities upon trust. He was the most inconsistent, whenever he talked of the King of Prussia; and I remember when we first heard that the united Imperial and French army was marching down to drive the King of Prussia out of Saxony, that I saw a billet which M. Voltaire wrote to a gentleman who lived in the next street, exprest in these terms, "Ce monsieur de Brandenbourg qui a fait presenter quatre bayonettes au ventre de ma nièce en a quatre vingt milles en arrêt contre lui". This alluded to his niece being refused admittance to him, when he was under arrest at Francfort. Some few days after, we were informed of the French defeat at Rosbach. M. Voltaire's billet was much changed: "J'admire le Roy de Prusse, je plains les Français, et je me tais". He was as consistent too with respect to the English; sometimes we were Islanders fit for the element that surrounded us, without taste of life, or sense of manner; at other times, Monsieur, vous êtes Anglais, Grand Dieu! que je voudrais l'être. He indeed did us the honour in his hours of dislike to treat us with hatred rather than with contempt. Such was the Voltaire that I left in Suisse about three years ago, when I went into Italy, and such I found him upon my return last year, but the limits of his retreat were then much confined. He had during my stay in Italy, acted a very unhandsome part, with regard to some of the Clergy at Lausanne, and his behaviour had been resented, as it ought. The quitting his house in that place was the necessary consequence. He was therefore last year endeavouring to extend his limits on the side of Geneva, which however it is hardly possible for him to do, without touching upon the territories of his own King. He might then perhaps apply to his great patron the Duke of Richelieu, and might easily obtain the privileges he talks of, in those outskirs of France, however obnoxious he may have rendered himself at home. He had bought lands on that side, and was even building upon them, when I was in that country about last Easter. Their distance was not very great from his little country house near Geneva, and I am apt to suspect that these are the Manours and Castles of which he talks in his letter to your Lordship. Wherever these Manours and Castles are, they make but little difference as to M. Voltaire's letters, except that I think the ridicule would be a little heightened. I am in one respect pleas'd with M. Voltaire's letter, as it gives me his real portrait, and as much as I dislike national reflections, I cannot help saying, that I see too in it a strong characteristic of his country. The last four years which I pass'd abroad, have made me often wish, that we took a little more pains to conciliate people to us by our pens. The learned in all countries know how to do us justice, but I would not have it totally confined to them. The French insinuate themselves into the opinion of foreign nations, by keeping up a good correspondence, with almost all the writers employed in conveying intelligence. I think they carry it too far, but do not we, my Lord, neglect this article a little too much? I wish to see Voltaire's letter circulate wherever English and French are read, there is in it the true character of the author, and the genuine complexion of his country, I would fain flatter myself too, that whilst foreigners do justice to your Lordship, they will at the same time discover some strong national features in your Lordship's noble reply. I have the honour to be with all possible respect, My Lord, Your Lordship's most obedient, and most humble servant, Richard Phelps