[ Lausanne , 9 August 1755 ] … The poem on ‘La Pucelle d'Orléans’, the announcement of which I have found in a number of the ‘Mercure suisse’ of 1736 as a work upon which he [Voltaire] was then occupied, has finished by making a great deal of noise at Geneva. Copies of it have been distributed at Lausanne. It is said that Maubert at Geneva at present possesses a complete copy, which is the same that Grasset wished to have printed. This bookseller had on this occasion a very lively scene with m. de Voltaire, who had insisted upon the manuscript in question being shown to him, or at least an extract. Grasset brought him seventeen lines which he had copied with his own hand, and he demanded that they should be returned to him — not that he refused to allow a copy to be made, but wishing to have his handwriting back again. Voltaire broke his word; this was followed by violence on the part of the master of the house and his servants. Grasset escaped, but was prevented by mischance from laying his complaint before the magistrate; Voltaire anticipated him and made his own complaint; the resident of France intervened and had Grasset put in prison, who was released the next day with satisfactory words. That is the summary of a long narration 2 of the bookseller which I have seen. It is since known that, upon the requirement of the poet, the seventeen lines of the extract were burnt by the hand of the executioner. It is said that the piece is of such a character that if its author were in France, and convicted of being its writer, he would be condemned to the stake. It is very humiliating to him to have placed himself in such a position. It would be impossible to conduct one's self worse than he does; he ought to disavow this piece with constancy, not make any attempt to secure it; and, above all, not say that he formerly worked on this subject. The result of this vile affair is that Voltaire has fallen into the greatest contempt at Geneva, and he is reduced (it is said) to receive worthless people at his table so as not to be alone. What a sad ending to a life which might have been rendered glorious if he had employed his time upon worthy subjects! Those who have seen this piece agree in saying that it contains everything that blasphemy and obscenity can present of the most odious and most revolting nature. I salute very cordially m. de Brenles, and am ever, etc.]