Paris 21 octobre [1745] a My dear and honourable friend, How could j guess y r musulman person had shifted Galata for Flanders, and was pass'd from the serraglio to the closet of the Duke of Cumberland? But now j conceive it is more pleasant to live with b such a prince, than to speak in state to a grand visir by the help of an interpreter. Had j thought it was my dear s r Evrard who was secretary to that great prince, j had certainly taken c a journey to Flanders; my duty is to visit the place where y r nation gave so noble proofs of her steady courage. An historian ought to look on the theatre, in order to dispose the scenery of his work; this would have been a sufficient motive to ask leave of coming to you. But what greater reason, what better motive than my friendshipp for you? Who would be so cruel as to deprive me from the pleasure of embracing again my dear friend? You would have procur'd to me the honour to see y r noble master, and to approach that great prince whom j admire from afar. J would have learn'd more in two or three conversations with you, than j could do by letters; since you are so loath to write. Pray dear s r , in the name of our old friendship be not so neglectfull. A secretary must be us'd to write. And the man by whom our letters are convey'd knows very well we do d not talk of politics. Y r kindness to me, y r publick spirited soul, y r passion for y r prince's glory shall engage you to impart to me the instructions j ask of you. J send you the ninth edition of the poem you speak of; ’t is but a poem. J have follow'd there the laws of poetry more than those of history. Yet you will see whith what respect j have spoken of the duke of Cumberland, and what just praises j have bestow'd on y r noble nation. Help me to do more justice to both, j entreat you to send me the London magazines of these three last years. You may easily come at them by writing to London. J desire you would do me the favour to send the pacquet to m r Sechelles, who will d certainly send it to me. By the god of friendship if you was to stay one month longer in Flanders, j would post away from Paris to see you. For j'll be all my life y r faithfull and tender friend the sick Voltaire