à Bruxelles rue de la Grosse tour, ce 2 mars n. s. 1740 Dear s r , J take the liberty to send you my old follies having no wise things to present you with. J am now at Bruxelles with the same lady Duchastelet who hinder'd me some years ago from paying a visit to you at Constantinople and b whom j shall live with c in all probability the greatest part of my life, since these ten years j have not departed from her. She is now at the trouble of a Damn'd suit in law that she pursues at Bruxelles. We have abandonn'd the most agreable retirement in the country, to bawl here in the grotte of the flemish chicane; the high dutch baron who takes upon himself to present you with this d packet of french reveries , is one of the noble players whom the emperor sends into Turquy to represent the majesty of the Roman empire before the highness of the musulman power. J am persuaded you are become nowadais a perfect turk; you speak their language very well, and you e keep to be sure a pretty harem. Yet j am affraid you want two provisions which j think necessary, to make that nauseous draught of life go down 1 , j mean books, and friends. Should you be happy enough to have met at Pera, with men whose conversation agrees with y r way of thinking? If so, you want for c nothing, for you enjoy health, honours, and fortune. Healt, and places j have not, j regret the former, j am satisfied without the other. As to fortune j enjoy a very competent one, and j have a friend besides. Thus j compt my self happy, tho j am as sickly as you saw me at Wandsworth. J hope jll return to Paris with my lady Duchastelet, in two years time. If about that season you return to y r dear England by the way of Paris, j hope jll have the pleasure to see y r dear excellency at her house which is without doubt the finest of Paris, and situated in a position worthy of Constantinople; for, it looks upon the river; and a long tract of lands interspers'd with pretty houses is to be seen from every window. Upon my word j would with all that, prefer the visto of the sea of Marmara before that of the Seine, and j would pass some months at Constantinople with you, if j could live without that Lady; whom j look as a great man, and as c a most solid and respectable friend. She understands Newton, she despises superstition f , in short she makes me happy. d- J have receiv'd this -d week two summons from a frenchman who intends to travel to Constantinople, he would fain intice me to g that pleasant journey. But since, you could not, no body can. Farewell my dear friend! whom j will love and honour all my life's time, farewell. Tell me whow you fare, tell me you are happy. J am so if you continue to be so. Y r for ever Voltaire