a Sr, By the first conveyance that offers itself you will receive a thick volume which very probably you will never read. It is entitled, Theory of Punishment 1 . It is part of a work to which if ever it should be compleated I intend to give some such title as Principles of Legal Policy; the object of it is to trace out a new model for the Laws: of my own country you may imagine, in the first place: but keeping those of other countries all along in view. To ascertain what the Laws ought to be, in form and tenor as well as in matter: and that elsewhere as well as here. All that I shall say to recommend it to you is that I have taken counsel of you much oftener than of our own Ld. Coke and Hale and Blackstone. The repose of Grotius and Puffendorf and Barbeyrac and Burlamaqui I would never wish to see disturbed. I have built solely on the foundation of utility, laid as it is by Helvetius. Becarria has been lucerna pedibus , or if you please manibus, meis . Perhaps what I have done may be found but cobweb-work. Such as it is however it is spun out of my own brain. As such I send it you. It is neither borrow'd nor pilfer'd. I have spent upon it in the whole already about 7 years. I mean to bestow upon it the rest of my days, which at present are somewhat more than a third of your's. One of the rewards I have been proposing to myself has been your good opinion. Perhaps I am come too soon to attain it: perhaps too late. I have seen with regret the following billet: said to have been sent to an intruder perhaps not more impertinent, than myself, Octoginta due annos octoginta due morbes, veniam peto si non sum visendus sed obliviscendus 2 . My labours have been so tedius that before they are come to an end my best rewards may I fear be lost. Helvetius is gone — years ago my eyes paid a tribute to his memory: and you and D'Alembert are leaving us. If you should ever find any thing to say to me I need scarce tell you that it will be acceptable. Anything directed to Elmsly's the Booksellers (successor to Vaillant) will reach me. I am a Lawyer by profession; and might have been so by practise. My name is precisely as well known to you as that of the nearest inhabitant of Siberia. It is . . . .